# Segmentation and Personalization

Liferay's Segmentation and Personalization displays the right content to the 
right people at the right time. It provides the tools you need to manage 
different audiences and dynamically provide personalized experiences for people 
using your site. For example, if you're creating a campaign to promote new 
financial service products you need a way to display offers to customers who 
are likely to be interested in those offers. You don't want to display 
information on a basic free checking account for an "advanced" customer who 
carries a high balance across several types of accounts, but you do want to 
show that information to a vistor who entered the site through a landing page 
from a promotional at a local college. At the same time, you probably don't 
want to recommend options for optimizing retirement account contributions to 
the college student, but the other customer might be a great target for that 
campaign. By using things like user metadata or how a visitor has interacted 
with your site, you can dynamically target 

## Defining Segments

The first part of the equation is defining the types of segments that you need. 
You can create any number of Segments to capture every case. Segments are 
composed of different criteria. In the previous example you might have a 
segment for *Free Checking Account Prospects* that contains criteria based on 
user data, like customers that don't currently have an open checking account, 
or based on user behavior, like visitors who came to the site through specific 
channels. To learn more about Segmentation options have a look at the [overview 
of the Segment editor](link), practice [creating basic Segments](link), or 
create more complicated [Segments with custom fields and session data](link).

## Integrating Segments with Analytics Cloud

There are two different stories that User Segments can tell. One is the story of
using Segments to target content to specific audiences and encourage engagement 
and positive user experiences. The other is the story of using Segments to 
define groups of users and vistors to analyze their behavior and interactions 
with your site. To tell the second story, you need to integrate with Analytics 
Cloud.

Analytics Cloud is a Liferay service that provides in depth information on who
is using your site, and how they are using it. Analytics Cloud is a key 
component to fully utilizing Segments and Personalization, since it enables you 
to see the full picture of how users and visitors on your site are behaving and 
interacting with both standard and targeted content. You can learn more about
this in the [Using Analytics Cloud with User Segments article](link).


## Using Segments to Personalize Experiences

...

coming soon

...