# Using the Calendar [](id=using-the-calendar)

The Calendar widget is an updated, digitized, 3D-printed sundial. Okay, it's
really a tool for storing and sharing scheduled events. It's a personal planner
for individual users, a shared calendar for an entire site, or both at the same
time. It can be used to create multiple calendars for a single site or user, to
overlay the events stored in multiple calendars for simultaneous view, to send
email reminders to users, and more.

+$$$

**Note:** The calendar supports social activities. Whenever a calendar event
is added or updated, a corresponding social activity notification is created. If
the event was added or updated in a calendar that the current user has
permission to view, the social activity will be viewable in the Activities
widget. 

$$$

## Configuring the Calendar[](id=configuring-the-calendar-portlet)

Once the Calendar widget is on a page, open the
![Options](../../images/icon-app-options.png) menu in the widget's header and
click *Configuration*.<!--deleted references to tabs because there isn't any
material here on the Display Settings and RSS tabs -NR-->

![Figure 1: The Setup &rarr; User Settings tab provides the options you need to get started quickly.](../../images/new-calendar-configuration.png)

From the *User Settings* tab, customize the calendar's default view and
settings. 

**Time Format:** Choose *AM/PM* or to *24 Hour*. *AM/PM* is the default; with
this time format, times such as 8AM or 11PM are displayed. With the *24 Hour*
time format, these times are displayed as 08:00 and 23:00.

**Default Duration:** Choose an event duration. When you add a new event
to the calendar, the time you set here specifies how long events last by
default.

**Default View:** Choose *Day*, *Week*, *Month* or *Agenda*. This sets the
default for when the calendar is first displayed, but the view can be changed
by any user by clicking the appropriate button at the top-right of the widget.

**Week Starts On:** Choose *Sunday*, *Monday*, or *Saturday*. 

**Time Zone:** Either choose a particular time zone or check the *Use Global
Time Zone* box.

If you check *Use Global Time Zone*, the time displayed by the Calendar portlet
depends on whether it's being viewed by a logged-in user or a guest. If a user
is logged in to the portal, the Calendar portlet displays events using the time
zone set for the user in *User Menu* &rarr; *My Account* &rarr; *Account
Settings* &rarr; *Preferences* &rarr; *Display Settings* &rarr; *Time Zone*. If
the Calendar portlet is viewed by a guest, or by a user who is not logged in,
the Calendar portlet displays events using the time zone set by the portal
administrator in *Control Panel* &rarr; *Portal Settings* &rarr; *Display
Settings* &rarr; *Time Zone*.

From the *Display Settings* tab, set the display behavior for the calendar.

**Display Scheduler Only:** By default, the list of calendars and a
mini-calendar view (used for quickly navigating to a particular date) are
displayed. Check this to display only the scheduler (the large calendar view
showing the calendar and scheduled events).

**Display User Events:** Turns off the display of the current, logged in User's
personal calendar and events.

**Display Scheduler's Header:** If disabled, removes the ability to toggle
through the calendar views (for example, Day/Week/Month/Agenda) and access to
the Add Event button.

**Enabled Views:** If one of the available views is disabled (Day, Week, Month,
Agenda), it disappears from the scheduler's header.

**Maximum Days to Display:** Set the maximum number of days to display in the
Agenda view.

**Maximum Events to Display:** Set the maximum number of events to display in
the Agenda view.

Use the *RSS* tab to disable RSS subscription or configure the RSS behavior. 

Next, let's look at the widget itself.
