# Bookmarking Sites

You can use the Bookmarks widget to provide a list of bookmarks that benefit the 
entire community. For example, a site that focuses on auto repair could use this 
widget to provide bookmarks to technical manuals, part specifications, 
maintenance tips, and more. Administrators can create bookmarks in the widget, 
and users can access them. Both internal pages as well as external sites can be 
bookmarked. 

## Creating Bookmarks and Folders

To use the Bookmarks widget, you must first add it to a page. Select *Add* 
(![Add](../../../images/icon-add-app.png)) 
&rarr; *Widgets* &rarr; *Community*, and then drag *Bookmarks* onto the page. 

![Figure 1: Initially, no bookmarks appear in the Bookmarks widget.](../../../images/bookmarks-empty.png)

The Bookmarks widget is empty at first. The current folder's name (*Home* by 
default) is displayed to the top-left of the graphic indicating there are no 
bookmarks in the current folder. The widget displays the Management Bar 
immediately above the current folder's name. The Management Bar lets you manage 
any displayed bookmarks. The Management Bar's search bar lets you search for 
folders and bookmarks in the widget. 
<!-- left off here -->

To see all this functionality in action, you must first add some bookmarks and 
folders. When you mouse-over the app, another bar appears across the top that 
shows the app's name, an Add button 
(![Add](../../../images/icon-portlet-add-control.png)), and an Options button 
(![Options](../../../images/icon-app-options.png)). When 
you click the Add button, a small menu pops up that lets you select *Folder* or 
*Bookmark*. Selecting *Bookmark* brings up the *Add Bookmark* form. This form 
lets you add a bookmark by filling in the *Name*, *URL*, and *Description* 
fields. Below these fields, there are additional options for Categorization, 
Related Assets, and Permissions, just like in other Liferay apps. See the 
[Publishing Content Dynamically](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/publishing-content-dynamically) 
section for more information on this. When you're finished filling in the Add 
Bookmark form, click *Save* to create the bookmark. If you select *Folder* from 
the add button, this brings up the *Add Folder* form. This form is very similar 
to the Add Bookmark form. Fill in its *Name* and *Description* fields, assign 
any permissions you want to use, and click *Save* to create the folder. When you 
create folders and bookmarks, they're added to the current folder. Folders can 
have any number of subfolders. 

![Figure 2: The Add Bookmark form lets you create a bookmark.](../../../images/bookmarks-add-bookmark.png)

![Figure 3: The Bookmarks app displays your folders and bookmarks.](../../../images/bookmarks-all.png)

To import or export bookmarks, mouse-over the app, click the *Options* button 
next to the Add button at the top of the app, and select *Export/Import*. In the 
window that appears, you can start a new export or import process. For details, 
[see the article on importing and exporting pages and content](/discover/portal/-/knowledge_base/7-0/importing-exporting-pages-and-content). 

Next, you'll learn how to manage bookmarks and folders. 

## Managing Bookmarks and Folders [](id=managing-bookmarks-and-folders)

The Bookmarks app provides several ways to manage your bookmarks and folders. 
One is the management bar. Checking the checkbox on the left-hand side of the 
management bar selects all the folders and bookmarks currently displayed in the 
app. When you do this, the management bar changes to show the number of selected 
items, and replaces the buttons on its right with an Info button 
(![Info](../../../images/icon-information.png)) and a Recycle Bin button 
(![Recycle Bin](../../../images/icon-trash.png)). Pressing the Recycle Bin 
button moves the selected items to the Recycle Bin. Uncheck the checkbox to 
return the management bar to its initial state. In this state, the selector menu 
to the right of the checkbox lets you filter the items to display: 

- **All:** Display all folders and bookmarks. 

- **Recent:** Display only recent bookmarks. 

- **Mine:** Display only the bookmarks you created. 

The *Info*, *Descriptive* 
(![Descriptive](../../../images/icon-descriptive-style.png)), and *List* 
(![List](../../../images/icon-list-style.png)) buttons are on the management 
bar's right side. Clicking the Info button slides in an info panel that displays 
more information about the current folder and gives you additional management 
options. To receive notifications when a user adds a bookmark to the folder, 
subscribe to the folder by clicking the *Star* icon 
(![Star](../../../images/icon-star.png)). Click the *Actions* menu 
(![Actions](../../../images/icon-actions.png)) to reveal options for editing, 
moving, assigning permissions to, or deleting the folder. Note that you can't 
edit, move, or delete the Home folder. 

![Figure 4: A folder's info panel shows more information about the folder, and lets you take additional actions.](../../../images/bookmarks-info-panel.png)

The management bar's Descriptive and List buttons determine how the app displays 
folders and bookmarks. Click the Descriptive button to show each item's name, 
description, number of subfolders and bookmarks (folders), and number of visits 
(bookmarks). The app displays items this way by default. To instead show items 
in a simple list, click the List button. 

You can also manage each item from its *Actions* menu. You can use this menu to 
edit, move, assign permissions to, or delete each item. If the item is a 
bookmark, you can also subscribe to it in its actions menu. Subscribing to a 
bookmark means that you receive a notification when the bookmark changes. 

When moving an item, the Bookmarks app presents you with the Move Entries form. 
In this form, the item's new folder is selected for you automatically. Click 
*Move* to move the item to this folder. To choose a different folder, click 
*Select*. The window that appears lets you navigate your folder hierarchy, 
beginning with the Home folder. Click any folder's name to view its subfolders. 
The text at the top of the window indicates your position in the hierarchy. You 
can click the folder names in this text to move back up the hierarchy. To select 
a subfolder, click its *Choose* button. To choose the folder you're currently 
browsing, click the *Choose This Folder* button. To create a new folder, click 
the *Add Subfolder* button. Note that when you're in the Home folder, this is 
instead the *Add Folder* button. The window closes once you choose a folder, 
returning you to the Move Entries form. Click *Move* to move the item to the 
selected folder. 

![Figure 5: Choose the folder to move the item to.](../../../images/bookmarks-move-folder.png)
