# Introduction [](id=Introduction)

Liferay invites the Liferay Analytics Cloud Owner (the person who purchased the
product) to your company’s Liferay Analytics Cloud project. If you’re not the
Analytics Cloud Owner and haven’t received an invitation to the Analytics Cloud
project, ask an Analytics Cloud system administrator to invite you. 

Clicking on the link in your invitation opens your browser to the Analytics
Cloud sign in page. Your Analytics Cloud project’s sign in page asks for your
Liferay credentials. Once you’ve successfully signed in, your company’s project
appears. 

![Figure 1: Your project’s home page welcomes you to all Analytics Cloud offers.](../../images/home-page-intial.png)

Figure 1: Your project’s home page welcomes you to all Analytics Cloud offers.

Your project’s home page welcomes you to all Analytics Cloud offers. The center
main area describes and links to each key component page:

- *Segments:* Aggregate customers into Segments based on similar profiles and 
behavior data. Track Segment growth, discover patterns of interest and improve
their level of engagement with your brand. Discover your target audience.

- *Individuals:* Learn how individual customers interact with your sites. View 
holistic profiles that combine customer's profile data with their page and asset
interactions for deep insight inter their level of engagement. 

- *Pages:* Combine path analytics and traditional page analytics to understand 
how customers interact with your content. Measure individual web page
performance to improve digital experiences. 

- *Assets:* Track and visualize engagement levels of digital assets such as 
forms, blogs, web content, documents, and media to ensure that assets are
driving conversions. 

- *Data Sources:* Integrate your customer profile and behavior data from 
multiple Liferay DXP sites and custom data sources. 

The right side of the main area provides these shortcuts and overviews:

- *Add Data Source:* Quick access to adding data sources for customer profiles 
and behavior data.

- *Usage:* Compares the number of Individuals and Pages you’re analyzing to your
Liferay Analytics Cloud Plan. 

- *User Management:* Let’s you invite users and assign permissions. 

The *Liferay Analytics Cloud* icon (![Liferay Analytics Cloud](../../images/icon-analytics-cloud.png)) at the top of the navigation panel takes you to
the home page from wherever you are in the application. Here are the left navigation sections:

- *People*: Learn more about your customers by analyzing them individually as 
*Individuals* or aggregated as *Segments*. 

- *Touchpoints*: Analyze *page* and *asset* performance and view paths users 
take to your pages. 

- *User icon:* Lets you switch projects and sign out.

- *Settings*: Provides options for managing data sources, users, and updating 
your Analytics Cloud usage. 

If no data sources are connected, a message near the top of the main area tells
you so and links you to the page for adding data sources. Adding data sources is
next. 
