# What is Liferay Analytics Cloud? [](id=what-is-liferay-analytics-cloud)

Your company interacts with lots of people, including existing and prospective
customers. On your websites they browse products and services, ask questions,
leave feedback, etc. Presenting relevant, interesting site content motivates
people to do business with you. Knowing your customers well and understanding
how they interact with your digital content can help you improve their
experience. 

Liferay Analytics Cloud (Analytics Cloud) is a cloud-based SaaS offering that
works with Liferay Digital Experience Platform (Liferay DXP) to give you
insights into customer attributes and behavior. It aggregates your data from
multiple sources and presents analytics, making it easier to understand people
and their interests. The centralized contact data and analytics help you
communicate intelligently with people and create terrific user experiences that
drive business and make people happier.

![Figure 1: As you learn about topics that interest your audience, you can speak intelligently about the topics, through online content and in person.](../../images/segment-interests.png)

## Benefits [](id=benefits)

Here are key things Analytics Cloud helps you do: 

- **Gain a well-rounded view of people:** Analytics Cloud gives you a clear 
picture of people by aggregating their profile properties and behavior data from
multiple sources, including Liferay DXP sites.

- **Identify and track target audiences:** Focus on characteristics and 
behaviors common to targeted individuals and aggregate those individuals into
Segments. Track Segment growth and monitor engagement level with your brand, to
determine where to invest in content for target audiences.

- **Learn people's interests:** Once you know topics that interest people most, 
you can ready yourself to engage them on those topics. You can also produce
stimulating content that highlights how your products and services relate to the
topics. Doing these things improves your ability to generate new business and
improve customer relations.

- **Measure content performance:** Identify content that gets the most activity 
so you can build off of its success and create similar content to grow other
parts of your business. Spot underperforming content or content issues that
prevent people from engaging more deeply with your brand. Fix or improve the
content to get people on track, or remove the content from your site.

- **Determine the best advertising channels:** Discover how customers are 
finding your site pages so you can advertise on the right channels.

These are just some ways you benefit from using Analytics Cloud. Before getting
started with Analytics Cloud, you should understand its key components. 

## Components [](id=components)

Analytics Cloud helps you understand people, their interaction with your sites,
and the paths (or channels) that draw them to your sites. 

- [Understanding People](#understanding-people)

- [Touchpoint Analytics](#touchpoint-analytics)

- [Path Analytics](#path-analytics)

Start with understanding people. 

### Understanding People [](id=understanding-people)

Existing and prospective customers interact with your company in person, on your
websites, and via email and messaging. On Liferay DXP sites, people are
registered users or visitors. Analytics Cloud integrates contacts (people) from
multiple sources, including Liferay DXP sites, into a single view. It merges
contact data into rich profiles of *Individuals*---unique contacts. Analytics
Cloud lets you name contact fields your way, making them most useful to you and
your company.

Analytics Cloud lets you aggregate Individuals into *Segments*. Segments are
groups of Individuals with common characteristics. You can create Segments
dynamically based on criteria or statically (comprising hand-selected
Individuals). You can use industry, for example, as a criteria. Industry Segment
Analytics shows industries engaging with you most and identifies your content
that interests them. 

![Figure 2: Dynamic Segment membership growth (and decline) reflects the number of people matching the Segment's criteria.](../../images/segment-growth.png)

Contact profiles are a big part of Analytics Cloud, but analytics about people's
interaction with your website pages and assets is a bigger part. This type of
analytics (called Touchpoint Analytics) helps you determine content
effectiveness in achieving your business goals.

### Touchpoint Analytics [](id=touchpoint-analytics)

Touchpoints are the locations (pages) where people interact with content. Here
are some of the Touchpoint Analytics:

-   *Visitor count:* the number of users (guest and signed in) visiting a 
    Touchpoint.

-   *Session length:* amount of time people are spending on a page's site.

-   *Number of sessions:* number of different people on a page's site.

-   *Time on page:* amount of time people are spending on a page.

-   *Bounce rate:* percentage of visitors to a particular website who navigate 
    away from the site after viewing only one page.

Assets are specific types of content entities on site pages. Traditional web
analytics are based on static websites---everyone sees the same page content. By
additionally providing analytics on content articles, Analytics Cloud helps you
determine the article effectiveness. It also provides insight into people's
interaction with personalized content. It generates charts on target audience
engagement with the content.

Liferay Analytics Cloud (beta) supports these Liferay DXP Assets:

- Blogs
- Documents and Media
- Forms
- Web Content

Regarding user behavior with a form, for example, Analytics Cloud shows the
number of views and submissions, the percentage of users abandoning the form,
and the form's average completion time. A line graph shows the number of views
over time.

![Figure 3: See how the number of views, visitors, and more are trending on your pages.](../../images/page-views.png)

As you view Page and Asset Analytics you can discern whether an action is
positive or negative. Here are some examples.

Positive:

- staying active in sessions
- frequent sign in
- submitting a form
- giving an article five stars

Negative:

- signing out shortly after signing in
- passing by key strategic content
- abandoning a form
- letting a session end

Learning how people get to pages and Assets is also useful.

### Path Analytics [](id=path-analytics)

People get to content through different channels (paths):

- Google search
- Advertisements
- Site navigation
- Search within the site
- Links inside other pages
- Links within Assets

If you expect your advertisements on a channel to draw lots of people to a page,
for example, check its performance in the page's Path Analytics. If people are
increasingly coming to your site pages from a particular social network,
advertise more on that network. 

Path Analytics includes reports the device types and browser types that render
your site content. It helps you determine which devices and browsers to test
more and optimize user experiences on.

You've been introduced to Liferay Analytics Cloud and what it offers. You're now
familiar with Segments, Touchpoints, Paths, and more. It's time to experience
Analytics Cloud for yourself.
