# Building Content Pages from Fragments [](id=building-content-pages-from-fragments)

After Page Fragment collections are published, you are ready to create Page
Templates.  A Page Template is composed of some number of Fragments---one or
fifty; it doesn't matter.

## Creating a Page Template [](id=creating-a-page-template)

You create Page Templates in the *Pages* page in Site Administration.

1.  From Site Administration for your Site, go to *Build* &rarr; *Pages*.

2.  Select the Page Templates tab.

Like Fragments, Content Page Templates must be created in Collections. Your
Collections appear on the Page Templates page. Next you want to create a Page
Template.

1.  Click the *New* button to add a Collection.

2.  *Name* your Collection, provide a *Description*, and click *Save*.

3.  Click on the new Collection.

4.  Click the *Add* icon (
    ![Add Page Template](../../../../../../images/icon-add.png)) 
    and select *Content Page Template* from inside the Collection.

5.  Set the *Name* and click *Submit*.

Now you're on the Page Template creation page. Fragments are added by selecting 
a Collection from the *Fragments* tab on the right and adding them to the page. 
You can add multiple Fragments from different collections, and you can add the 
same Fragment to the page multiple times. To see which Fragments the current 
page is made up of, you can check the *Added* tab. The template is 
automatically saved as you work, but you must click *Publish* to make it 
available for use.

![Figure 1: The Page Template Creation page.](../../../../../../images/content-page-template-creation.png)

If the template contains editable text, you can click on the editable text area to change the text.

![Figure 2: Editing text inline.](../../../../../../images/edit-text-inline.png)

If the template contains an editable image, you can click on the image and 
replace it by either uploading your own image, or selecting one from Documents 
and Media.

![Figure 3: When you mouse over an editable image a blue outline will appear. You can replace it by clicking on it.](../../../../../../images/edit-image-inline.png)

+$$$

Note: During the process of creating Page Templates you can make changes to editable Fragments, and in the process of creating the final Content Page, you can make changes to the Page Template. Any changes you make to the Fragment for a Page Template are only reflected in that specific Page Template, and won't effect the Fragment itself. Likewise, when you apply edits to the text or images of a Content Page, those changes will only exist on the current page that you're working on, and not on the Page Template itself.

$$$

Click on the back arrow at the top to stop editing the template.

## Creating a Content Page [](id=creating-a-content-page)

After you are done creating a Page Template you can use that template to create 
a Content Page. A Content Page is basically a page created from Fragments. Any 
aspects of the page that were defined by the developer as editable can be 
edited during the creation of the page or page template.

1.  Go back to the main *Build* &rarr; *Pages* page.

2.  Click the *Add* icon (
    ![Add Page](../../../../../../images/icon-add.png)) for *Add Page* and 
    select *Public Page*.

3.  Select the Collection which contains the template you want to 
    use from the *Collections* menu on the left.

4.  Click on the template you want to use.

5.  Enter a *Name*.

6.  Click *Save*.

The page is published immediately, but you are given the opportunity to edit 
the final page. You can change which Fragments are used here, and edit any 
editable fields so that the final page is different from the Page Template.

![Figure 4: Selecting you page template.](../../../../../../images/selecting-template.png)

Alternatively, you can create a Content Page without a template. From the page
creation screen,

1.  Select *Basic Pages* from under *Collections*.

2.  Select *Content Page*.

3.  Enter a *Name* and click *Save*.

5.  Add Fragments to create your new page.
    
By default, your new page will be added to the Navigation Menu and users can 
access the page you created. Next you'll learn how to import and export 
Page Fragments.
